# a. Rendering a collection, modules

## console.log
"What's the difference between an experienced JavaCsript programmer and a rookie? The experienced one uses console.log 10-100 times more."

- When something does not, don't just guess what's wrong. Instead, log or use some other way of debugging.

- When you use the command `console.log` for debugging, don't concatenate things 'the Java way' with a plus, instead use:
  - `console.log('props value is', props)`

- On the contrary, when you pass objects as ditinct arguments separated by commas to `console.log`, the content of the object is printed to the developer console as strings that are insightful.

## Protip: Visual Studio Code snippets
- With Visual Studio Code, it's easy to create 'snippets', i.e. shortcuts for quickly genereating commonly re-used portions of code, much like how 'sout' works in Netbeans. Instructions for creating snippets can be found [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets#_creating-your-own-snippets)

- Useful ready-made snippets can also be found as VS Code plugins

## JavaScript Arrays
- From here on out, we will be using the functional programming methods of the JavaScript array, such as `find`, `filter`, and `map` - all of the time. They operate on the same general principles as streams do in Java 8.

- [Suggested series on Functional Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0zVEGEvSaeEd9hlmCXrk5yUyqUag-n84)

## Rendering collections
* Please look at the code found in folder a

- Every note contains its textual content and a timestamp as well as a boolean value for marking whether the note has been categorized as important or not, and also a unique id.

- The code functions due to the fact that there are exactly three notes in the array. A single note is rendered by accessing the objects in the array by referring to a hard-coded index number:
    `<li>{note[1].content}</li>`

- This is not practice. A solution can be made general by generating React-elements from the array objects using the map function.
    `notes.map(note => <li>{note.content}</li>)`

- The result is an array of li elements:
    ```
    [
      '<li>HTML is easy</li>',
      '<li>Browser can execute only Javascript</li>',
      '<li>GET and POST are the most important methods of HTTP protocol</li>',
    ]
    ```

- Which can then be put inside ul tags:
    ```
    <ul>
      {notes.map(note => <li>{note.content}</li>)}
    </ul>
    ```

- It's common in similar situations for the dynamically-generated content to be separated into its own method, which the JSX template calls:
    ```
      const rows = () => {
        notes.map(note => <li>{note.content}</li>)
      }

      {rows()}
    ```

## Key Attribute
- Even though the application seems to be working, there is a nasty warning on the console

- As the linked [page](https://reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html#keys) in the error message instructs, the list items, i.e. the elements generated by the map method, must each have a unique key value: an attribute called key.

- React uses the key attributs of objects in an array to determine how to update the view generated by a component when the component is re-rendered. More about this [here](https://reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html#recursing-on-children)

## Map